abscissa_derive/README.md, before:

![Abscissa](https://www.iqlusion.io/img/github/iqlusioninc/abscissa/abscissa.svg)

# abscissa_derive: custom derive macros for Abscissa

[![Crate][crate-image]][crate-link]
[![Docs][docs-image]][docs-link]
[![Apache 2.0 Licensed][license-image]][license-link]
[![Build Status][build-image]][build-link]
[![Appveyor Status][appveyor-image]][appveyor-link]

[crate-image]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/abscissa_derive.svg
[crate-link]: https://crates.io/crates/abscissa_derive
[docs-image]: https://docs.rs/abscissa_derive/badge.svg
[docs-link]: https://docs.rs/abscissa_derive/
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache2.0-blue.svg
[license-link]: https://github.com/iqlusioninc/abscissa/blob/master/LICENSE
[build-image]: https://circleci.com/gh/iqlusioninc/abscissa.svg?style=shield
[build-link]: https://circleci.com/gh/iqlusioninc/abscissa
[appveyor-image]: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9bgh8je3rsmbyo0y?svg=true
[appveyor-link]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/tony-iqlusion/abscissa

This crate provides the custom derive implementations used by the
[Abscissa] command-line app microframework.

It's designed to be a one-stop shop, providing all proc macros used by the
framework itself in a single crate. This ensures that proc macro upgrades
can be performed atomically (i.e. this won't ever depend on 3 versions of
`syn`), and minimizes the amount of code running as part of the build process.

[Abscissa]: https://github.com/iqlusioninc/abscissa/tree/master/

## Features

This crate provides custom derive for the following:

* **Options**: command-line parsing (using the same API as [gumdrop_derive])

[failure_derive]: https://github.com/withoutboats/failure_derive
[gumdrop_derive]: https://github.com/murarth/gumdrop

## License

The **abscissa_derive** crate is distributed under the terms of the
Apache License (Version 2.0). It is a fork of the [gumdrop_derive] crate,
which is also distributed under the terms of the Apache License (Version 2.0).

See [LICENSE] file in the toplevel directory for more information.

[LICENSE]: https://github.com/iqlusioninc/abscissa/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Remove vendored gumdrop; use upstream v0.5 crate
Originally abscissa vendored both `gumdrop` and `failure` to align
versions of syn and also prevent the possibility of hostile proc macros.

In hindsight, that was not a sustainable decision, and gumdrop in
particular has rather complex proc macros for which it would be nice to
receive upstream bugfixes.

This commit deletes all of the vendored gumdrop code, leaving
`abscissa_derive` an empty placeholder of a crate. But that's okay,
followup commits will replace some of the icky existing `macro_rules`
with fancy new proc macros.

abscissa_derive/README.md, after:

![Abscissa](https://www.iqlusion.io/img/github/iqlusioninc/abscissa/abscissa.svg)

# abscissa_derive: custom derive macros for Abscissa

[![Crate][crate-image]][crate-link]
[![Docs][docs-image]][docs-link]
[![Apache 2.0 Licensed][license-image]][license-link]
[![Build Status][build-image]][build-link]
[![Appveyor Status][appveyor-image]][appveyor-link]

[crate-image]: https://img.shields.io/crates/v/abscissa_derive.svg
[crate-link]: https://crates.io/crates/abscissa_derive
[docs-image]: https://docs.rs/abscissa_derive/badge.svg
[docs-link]: https://docs.rs/abscissa_derive/
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache2.0-blue.svg
[license-link]: https://github.com/iqlusioninc/abscissa/blob/master/LICENSE
[build-image]: https://circleci.com/gh/iqlusioninc/abscissa.svg?style=shield
[build-link]: https://circleci.com/gh/iqlusioninc/abscissa
[appveyor-image]: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/9bgh8je3rsmbyo0y?svg=true
[appveyor-link]: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/tony-iqlusion/abscissa

This crate provides the custom derive implementations used by the
[Abscissa] command-line app microframework.

## License

The **abscissa_derive** crate is distributed under the terms of the
Apache License (Version 2.0).

Copyright © 2018-2019 iqlusion

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
